README.md, before:

[![CI](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Compatibility (Android)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android.yml)
[![Compatibility (iOS)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios.yml)
[![Compatibility (Android, latest)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android-latest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android-latest.yml)
[![Compatibility (iOS, latest)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios-latest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios-latest.yml)

# uniffi-bindgen-react-native
[UniFFI](https://mozilla.github.io/uniffi-rs/latest/) is a multi-language bindings generator for Rust.

This project, `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`, is a uniFFI bindings generator for using Rust from React Native.

It provides tooling to generate:

- Typescript and JSI C++ to call Rust from Typescript and back again
- a Turbo-Module that installs the bindings into a running React Native library.

If you're ready to start, then start with [a step-by-step tutorial to make a Rust turbo-module](https://jhugman.github.io/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/).

If you're new to uniFFI, then [**the UniFFI user guide**](https://mozilla.github.io/uniffi-rs/latest/)
or [**the UniFFI examples**](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/examples#example-uniffi-components) are interesting places to start.

## Why `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`?

- Spend more time writing Typescript and Rust
- Full compatibility with `uniffi-rs`
- Your Rust SDK is portable across multiple languages.

### Why not, say WASM, via `wasm-bindgen`?

WASM is an amazing virtual machine however:

- your Rust crate must make alternative arrangements if it needs things that the virtual machine does not offer:
    - threads and
    - file access.
- you need to maintain a separate FFI (this is a temporary issue, solvable by something like uniFFI).

## Who is using `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`?

- [@unomed/react-native-matrix-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@unomed/react-native-matrix-sdk)

## Prior art and related projects

- [cawfree/react-native-webassembly](https://github.com/cawfree/react-native-webassembly)

## Contributing

If this tool sounds interesting to you, please help us develop it! You can:

* View the [contributor guidelines](https://jhugman.github.io/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/).
* File or work on [issues](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/issues) here in GitHub.
* Join discussions in the [#uniffi-bindgen-js:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#uniffi-bindgen-js:matrix.org) room on Matrix.

## Code of Conduct

This project is governed by Mozilla's [Community Participation Guidelines](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Funding

`uniffi-bindgen-react-native` is led by James Hugman, with deep collaboration from the [Filament](https://filament.im) engineering team, funded by [Filament](https://filament.im) and [Mozilla](https://future.mozilla.org).

## License

[MPL-2.0](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add to "who is using" section of readme (#239)
Hello ubrn maintainers!
I have an app in the iOS app store that uses ubrn. All my business logic
is in Rust with React Native used for the UI layer. The app is not open
source, and offers in-app-purchases, but the core functionality is free
to use to show people what is possible using the combination of Rust +
React Native to combine the performance of Rust with the UI of React
Native in a nontrivial application with synchronous and async UI
updates.

This pull request adds to the "who is using" section of the readme with
a link to where people can download the app and an endorsement blurb
about why ubrn has been good for the project.

Open to feedback: thanks for this library!

README.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Compatibility (Android)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android.yml)
[![Compatibility (iOS)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios.yml)
[![Compatibility (Android, latest)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android-latest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-android-latest.yml)
[![Compatibility (iOS, latest)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios-latest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/actions/workflows/compat-ios-latest.yml)

# uniffi-bindgen-react-native
[UniFFI](https://mozilla.github.io/uniffi-rs/latest/) is a multi-language bindings generator for Rust.

This project, `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`, is a uniFFI bindings generator for using Rust from React Native.

It provides tooling to generate:

- Typescript and JSI C++ to call Rust from Typescript and back again
- a Turbo-Module that installs the bindings into a running React Native library.

If you're ready to start, then start with [a step-by-step tutorial to make a Rust turbo-module](https://jhugman.github.io/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/).

If you're new to uniFFI, then [**the UniFFI user guide**](https://mozilla.github.io/uniffi-rs/latest/)
or [**the UniFFI examples**](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/examples#example-uniffi-components) are interesting places to start.

## Why `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`?

- Spend more time writing Typescript and Rust
- Full compatibility with `uniffi-rs`
- Your Rust SDK is portable across multiple languages.

### Why not, say WASM, via `wasm-bindgen`?

WASM is an amazing virtual machine however:

- your Rust crate must make alternative arrangements if it needs things that the virtual machine does not offer:
    - threads and
    - file access.
- you need to maintain a separate FFI (this is a temporary issue, solvable by something like uniFFI).

## Who is using `uniffi-bindgen-react-native`?

- [@unomed/react-native-matrix-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@unomed/react-native-matrix-sdk)
- [ChessTiles on iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chesstiles/id6737867924) "uniffi-bindgen-react-native lets us run our performance critical solution search algorithm and business logic in Rust, while rapidly prototying the UI with React Native"

## Prior art and related projects

- [cawfree/react-native-webassembly](https://github.com/cawfree/react-native-webassembly)

## Contributing

If this tool sounds interesting to you, please help us develop it! You can:

* View the [contributor guidelines](https://jhugman.github.io/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/).
* File or work on [issues](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/issues) here in GitHub.
* Join discussions in the [#uniffi-bindgen-js:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#uniffi-bindgen-js:matrix.org) room on Matrix.

## Code of Conduct

This project is governed by Mozilla's [Community Participation Guidelines](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Funding

`uniffi-bindgen-react-native` is led by James Hugman, with deep collaboration from the [Filament](https://filament.im) engineering team, funded by [Filament](https://filament.im) and [Mozilla](https://future.mozilla.org).

## License

[MPL-2.0](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/blob/main/LICENSE)
