docs/src/README.md, before:

[`uniffi-rs`](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/blob/main/README.md) is a suite of projects to allow Rust to be used from other languages. It was started at Mozilla to facilitate building cross-platform components in Rust which could be run on Android and iOS.

It has since grown to support for other languages not in use at Mozilla.

![React Native Logo](images/react-native-logo.svg)
+
![Rust Logo](images/rust-logo.svg)

[`uniffi-bindgen-react-native`](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native) is the project that houses the bindings generators for react-native.

It supports all language features that `uniffi-rs` supports, including:

- calling functions from Typescript to Rust, synchronous and asynchronous.
- calling functions from Rust to Typescript, synchronous and asynchronous.
- objects with methods, including:
    - garbage collection integration.
    - uniffi traits
- custom types

It contains tooling to generate bindings from Hermes via JSI, and to generate the code to create turbo-modules.

```admonish warning
This project is still in early development, and should not yet be used in production.
```

Commit message:

Release v0.29.3-0 (#273)
# 0.29.3-0

## ✨ What's New ✨

### 🌏🕸️ WASM!

After 6 months of development, we are releasing the first version of
`uniffi-bindgen-react-native` for use with WASM:

- Different fixtures running:
  - Fixtures `chronological` and `gc-callbacks-crasher` (#238)
  - Fixture `async-callbacks` (#237)
- Configuration file and `ubrn` command line:
- Enable entrypoint and ts bindings directory to be customized for wasm
(#259)
  - Add `ubrn build web --and-generate` command (#253)
  - Add CLI testing for `uniffi-bindgen-react-native` command. (#257)
  - Refactor of ubrn_cli into config and commands modules (#251)
- `uniffi-runtime-javascript` runtime, now on `crates.io`:
- Add runtimeVersion to vary version of uniffi-runtime-javascript (#256)
  - Prepare uniffi-runtime-javascript crate for release (#248)

## 🦊 What's Changed

- Add default value for the --config option in all ubrn commands (#265)
- Change Windows path separators in CMakeLists.txt (#261)
- Bump `uniffi-rs` version to 0.29.3 (#267)
- Bump bob & RN versions (#242) and (#260)
- Run yarn pack as part of compatibility tests (#250)
- Add to "who is using" section of readme (#239)
- Fix wrong key name of `manifestPath` in docs (#240)

## ⚠️ Breaking Changes

- Bump Typescript version to 5.8, affecting `ArrayBuffer` (#271)

**Full Changelog**:
https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native/compare/0.29.0-0...0.29.3-3

docs/src/README.md, after:

[`uniffi-rs`](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/blob/main/README.md) is a suite of projects to allow Rust to be used from other languages. It was started at Mozilla to facilitate building cross-platform components in Rust which could be run on Android and iOS.

It has since grown to support for other languages not in use at Mozilla.

![React Native Logo](images/react-native-logo.svg)
↔️
![Rust Logo](images/rust-logo.svg)

![Typescript logo](images/typescript-logo.svg)
↔️
![WASM logo](images/wasm-logo.svg)

[`uniffi-bindgen-react-native`](https://github.com/jhugman/uniffi-bindgen-react-native) is the project that houses the bindings generators for WASM and React Native.

It supports all language features that `uniffi-rs` supports, including:

- calling functions from Typescript to Rust, synchronous and asynchronous.
- calling functions from Rust to Typescript, synchronous and asynchronous.
- objects with methods, including:
    - garbage collection integration.
    - uniffi traits
- custom types

It contains tooling to generate bindings:

- for Hermes via JSI, and to generate the code to create turbo-modules.
- for WASM, using wasm-bindgen, and the WASM crate.

```admonish warning
This project is still in early development, and should not yet be used in production.
```
