docs/src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

[Introduction](README.md)

# Getting started

- [Before you start](getting-started/pre-installation.md)
- [Step by step: Make your first library project](getting-started/guide.md)

# Mapping Rust on to Typescript

- [Common types](idioms/common-types.md)
- [Objects: Objects with methods](idioms/objects.md)
  - [Garbage Collection and the Drop trait](idioms/gc.md)
- [Records: Objects without methods](idioms/records.md)
- [Enums and Tagged Unions](idioms/enums.md)
- [Errors](idioms/errors.md)
- [Callback interfaces]()
- [Promises/Futures](idioms/promises.md)
- [Async Callback interfaces]()

# Contributing

- [Local development](contributing/local-development.md)
- [Adding or changing generated turbo-module templates](contributing/changing-turbo-module-templates.md)
- [Changing generated Typescript or C++ templates](contributing/changing-bindings-templates.md)
- [Cutting a Release](./contributing/cutting-a-release.md)

# Reference

- [`ubrn` Command Line](reference/commandline.md)
- [`ubrn.config.yaml`](reference/config-yaml.md)
- [`uniffi.toml`](reference/uniffi-toml.md)
- [Generating a Turbo Module](reference/turbo-module-files.md)
- [Reserved words](reference/reserved-words.md)
- [Potential collisions](reference/potential-collisions.md)

Commit message:

Documentation III (#125)
Partially fixes #121 

This PR completes the baseline documentation (I think).

It adds:

- internals - sketching:
  -  the codegen'd path that the `generate turbo-modules` uses
  - the lifting and lowering path that the generated bindings uses
- callback interfaces and async-callbacks
- contribution guide for documentation.
- miscellaneous typo fixes and refactoring

---------

Co-authored-by: Johannes Marbach <n0-0ne+github@mailbox.org>

docs/src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

[Introduction](README.md)

# Getting started

- [Before you start](guides/pre-installation.md)
- [Step by step: Make your first library project](guides/getting-started.md)
- [Publishing your library project](guides/publishing.md)

# Mapping Rust on to Typescript

- [Common types](idioms/common-types.md)
- [Objects: Objects with methods](idioms/objects.md)
  - [Garbage Collection and the Drop trait](idioms/gc.md)
- [Records: Objects without methods](idioms/records.md)
- [Enums and Tagged Unions](idioms/enums.md)
- [Errors](idioms/errors.md)
- [Callback interfaces](idioms/callback-interfaces.md)
- [Promises/Futures](idioms/promises.md)
- [Async Callback interfaces](idioms/async-callbacks.md)

# Contributing

- [Local development](contributing/local-development.md)
- [Turbo-module Templates: Adding or changing](contributing/changing-turbo-module-templates.md)
- [Documentation: Contributing or reviewing](contributing/documentation.md)
- [Typescript or C++ templates: Changing](contributing/changing-bindings-templates.md)
- [Cutting a Release](./contributing/cutting-a-release.md)

# Reference

- [`ubrn` Command Line](reference/commandline.md)
- [`ubrn.config.yaml`](reference/config-yaml.md)
- [`uniffi.toml`](reference/uniffi-toml.md)
- [Generating a Turbo Module](reference/turbo-module-files.md)
- [Reserved words](reference/reserved-words.md)
- [Potential collisions](reference/potential-collisions.md)

# Internals

- [Lifting and lowering](./internals/lifting-and-lowering.md)
- [NativeModule.ts and Codegen](./internals/rn-codegen.md)
